But now let me ask you this, do you know what OPI stands for?
You'll find out and a lot more in the following report,
which will be given by Brother Paul Gilles,
who serves as the overseer of OPI.
Ecclesiastes 12 verse 10 says,
The congregator sought to find delightful words and to record accurate words of truth.
In harmony with this principle, the Office of Public Information, OPI,
at World Headquarters, has over the years been assigned by the governing body
to convey accurate information to the news media and academics.
But as Satan intensifies his slanderous attacks on Jehovah's people
and opposes feed authorities with twisted and distorted statements about us,
OPI's assignment now includes conveying accurate words of truth to government officials.
So in this report, we'd like to explain to you how and why this work is done
and also to relate a few experiences.
There are scriptural precedents for contacting government officials.
Jehovah positioned his servants before rulers in order to protect his people
or to further his purposes.
Examples include Joseph before Pharaoh, Nihamaya before King Artaxaxis,
Esther and Mordecai before King Azuharis and Paul before Felix.
Of course, we do not need the permission of governments to meet and to preach.
But we do recognize that having religious freedom and the cooperation of officials
is conducive to spreading the kingdom message.
While remaining politically neutral, we provide accurate information to kings
and all those in high positions so that we may go on leading a calm and quiet life
as First Timothy II versus two states.
Recently, brothers from OPI met with officials to address specific issues hindering our work in
Azerbaijan, Belarus, Russia and Central Asia.
In July, a meeting was held with the Prime Minister of one African country
to explain the reasons for our Christian neutrality.
Reports such as these that document incidents of injustice are provided to officials.
Many express appreciation for this information.
At a recent meeting held in Congo, Kinshasa, an embassy official commenting on the quality of these reports stated
they remain objective and moderate despite the seriousness of the facts.
So if we do not take the initiative to provide accurate information,
government officials may receive misinformation from composers trying to influence them to act against us.
Now while it takes time and effort to counteract lies and misinformation,
we have often experienced the truthfulness of what Proverbs 25 verse 15 tells us,
by patience, a commander is one over, and a gentle tongue can break a bone.
Well, let's now share with you some experiences that demonstrate the benefit of contacting both government officials and the media.
Regarding Russia, OPI keeps various officials around the world informed of the ongoing harassment and unjust detentions of our brothers.
As a result, many of these authorities have issued strongly worded statements condemning the ban in Russia,
some of which you could find on the JW org newsroom.
Meanwhile, OPI communicated with journalists about Russia, one of whom wrote a very interesting article for the international edition of Newsweek.
This article appeared on the front cover, and this one outlet alone has published about 30 articles about the oppression of Jehovah's Witnesses, not just in Russia, but other countries.
Each year in Uzbekistan, our brothers experience police raids, detentions, fines, and sadly, in some occasions, severe beatings.
This is just for carrying out their Christian ministry.
Now often the reason for that is because we have been consistently denied registration.
This photograph shows some brothers and sisters who are maintaining their joy, despite all of them having been fined exorbitant amounts.
Now interestingly, on May 14, 2018, the ambassador from Uzbekistan to the United States said this in Washington, D.C.
Jehovah's Witnesses will be able to register much easier.
So, seizing this opportunity, a delegation of brothers was approved to travel to Uzbekistan last month and held preliminary discussions with government representatives.
If it be Jehovah's will, we certainly pray that these efforts will lead to national registration and some relief for our brothers who have endured persecution.
Where appropriate, OPI also helps branches to organize public events in areas where our work is often misrepresented.
For instance, in Kazakhstan, where there have been some obstacles, local officials and communities have recently demonstrated a willingness to learn more about Jehovah's people.
Therefore, the branch hosted a series of open house events in Kingdom Halls in select locations.
A number of officials, media representatives and other professionals attended these events.
A government ministry wrote to the brothers stating, these events will provide the citizens of our country an opportunity to learn more about the activities and the history of Jehovah's Witnesses in Kazakhstan and worldwide.
In Sri Lanka, the Cardinal of the Catholic Church wrote to the President and other representatives of the government demanding that they cancel the special convention that was scheduled for just last July.
Not only did the Cardinal not get his way, but favorable government ministers actually invited the branch to hold a press conference to publicize the convention.
After OPI prepared the Sri Lanka branch for the event, approximately 45 media representatives attended the press conference held at Bethel.
Some of the journalists who attended this press conference also attended the special convention and published positive news stories.
So, instead of the clergy successfully influencing government officials to cancel the convention, these officials actually assisted us in publicizing it.
One of the tools that we use for conveying accurate information to the media and government officials is the newsroom section of JW.org.
However, seeing the need for our brotherhood to have a source of reliable reports about current events involving Jehovah's people, the majority of articles are now written with you in mind.
Quite a few have expressed appreciation for the imprisoned for their faith feature, which is now updated monthly and allows us to mention imprisoned brothers by name in our prayers.
Just as an example, these are the faces of some of our young brothers in Turkmenistan who have been imprisoned as conscientious objectors during 2018.
Jesus foretold, you will be hated by all the nations on account of my name.
So, we recognize that no amount of effort to educate government officials is going to change that.
Like Pharaoh, some of the world's dictators harden their hearts against Jehovah.
However, Jesus also foretold, you will be brought before governors and kings for my sake, for a witness to them and the nations.
It's not just OPI that is giving a witness to the governments. It is every brotherhood sister that officials come in contact with.
We have often heard a government official say that they know either a schoolmate, a former workmate, or a relative who is one of Jehovah's Witnesses.
Additionally, each and every brother in prison is giving a witness.
For example, on July 15, 2018, during a press interview, the Prime Minister of Armenia commented on his contact with Jehovah's Witnesses when he was a political prisoner.
He said, there were prisoners Jehovah's Witnesses who were there for not serving in the army.
These people were convinced about their beliefs.
And then he added, you don't have to agree with them, but you could feel it was their conviction.
So who knows if someone who observes your conduct or who you talk to in field service or on public transport, may be the very person who one day is in a government position and knows something about Jehovah's Witnesses because of what you did or said.
Indeed, we couldn't do the work in OPI without you brothers and sisters setting such a fine example.
Those who work in the Office of Public Information, under the direction of the Coordinators Committee, considered a real privilege to support all of you by communicating with government officials, representatives of the media and academia by conveying our beliefs and practices with accurate words of truth.
Thank you kindly, Brother Gilles, for that thought-provoking update on the important work being done in the Office of Public Information.
You notice how quickly I learned the meaning of that acronym.
If you remember from a previous annual meeting, Brother Heard especially likes acronyms.
Brother Gilles, we know Britain misses having you, but we're very happy to have you with us here in headquarters, at headquarters.
But you will have to learn how to correctly say, schedule, but we love you anyway.
But now let me ask you this.
Does it seem like our brothers and sisters around the globe are being pummeled with more and more natural disasters?
Well, you'll find out, Brother John Ekron, who serves as a helper to the Coordinators Committee, will give us the facts.
You'll find it very interesting, Brother Ekron, please.
In 2017 and 2018, we're certainly record years for disasters.
Just look at a few of the headlines from the news in 2017 and 2018.
There were earthquakes in Mexico, plague in Madagascar, food shortages in Venezuela.
Disasters are going to get worse.
In Congo, deadly Nipah virus in India, volcano erupts in Guatemala, violence in Cameroon and Ebola in the DRC.
Now, we are not surprised because we see the increased frequency and intensity of disasters as fulfillment of Bible prophecy.
If we look at Luke, chapter 21, and look at verses 10 and 11, Jesus said,
then He said to them, nation will rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom, and there will be great earthquakes.
And in one place after another, food shortages and pestilences, we are actually witnessing and can see the fulfillment of Jesus' words.
We are seeing earthquakes in one place after another, and truly great earthquakes as Jesus described.
Volcanoes dump huge amounts of ash and smoke into the air.
Tornados, hurricanes, and typhoon winds destroy buildings and property.
Rain and flooding from these huge storms cause rivers to overflow and damage large areas of lands and property, causing mud and debris to flow into buildings like this expandable kingdom hall.
Wildfires engulf both forests and communities and flames and smoke, really leaving only behind the charred remains of what was once called home.
Now, when there is a disaster, all of us are keenly interested to know how our brothers and sisters doing.
The JW News section of JW.org is regularly updated with news of how our brothers and sisters are affected by a certain disaster.
Just here, we see some of the headlines that are on JW News lately, and we encourage you to read this section regularly to stay up to date.
Now, to show you the size and scale of disasters lately, look at this map.
As we plot on it, the disasters that have occurred in just the last service year.
And do you notice the number of brothers that are affected?
Did you notice close to half a million of our brothers were directly affected by these disasters in just the last couple of years?
Now, it's sad to say that 22 of our brothers and sisters died in these disasters, and 84 were seriously injured.
Tens of thousands of our brothers have had to find new homes, and of these 14,000 had to completely flee their homeland.
Now, we want all of you to know that have been affected by many of these disasters just in the last couple of years that we love and pray for you.
You are not lost or forgotten.
Jehovah says in Isaiah 49.15, I would never forget you.
Now, proof that Jehovah has not forgotten you is the love of your brotherhood.
Now, Acts chapter 2 describes in the first century how the brothers then took care of one another.
Acts chapter 2 describes how our brothers were willing to sell properties and possessions to help one another out.
In Acts chapter 11, the brothers sent relief aid to those who were facing a very great famine.
Well, how has our united brotherhood responded to these disasters today?
Well, there's a fine phrase in Philippians chapter 1 and verse 27 that can show really how our brothers and sisters, all of us, are helping one another.
Philippians chapter 1 and verse 27, it is only behave in a manner worthy of the good news about the Christ so that whether I come and see you, or I am absent,
I may hear about you and learn that you are standing firm in one spirit with one soul and here's the phrase, striving side by side for the faith of the good news.
Well, one very big way that we can strive side by side and helping one another is by our donations to the worldwide work.
This chart gives you an idea of the cost of disasters and how they jumped in 2018.
As you can see, we spent it on an average of between five and seven million dollars on disaster relief and past service years, but look though what has happened in 2018.
Just in 2018, it has climbed to over $33 million.
Now, what will happen in 2019? What will we see? Well, it's already off to a big start in September.
The governing body asks that I pass along to all of you, thanks and appreciation for your generous donations.
We would like to assure you that your donations are being put to good use in helping in one disaster after another.
Now, another way that we as a brotherhood work side by side is volunteering to assist in a disaster.
Thousands of our brothers and sisters have willingly volunteered to reconstruct or repair kingdoms or our brothers and sisters homes.
Others carry and deliver food, water, and many other items needed after disaster to help our brothers by using any transportation means possible.
Horses, boats, trucks, some volunteer with paint rollers and brushes.
Others show up with shovels to clean up after a disaster, prepare meals for the workers,
put supply packages together, and sort, bag, and deliver them.
All with a smile, just look at all these happy faces.
We want to thank all of you that have worked so hard on disaster relief, especially the last couple of years.
We also want to thank the departments at headquarters, the branch committees, the branch departments, the circuit overseers, LDCs, disaster relief committees,
and all of you elders worldwide that have really pitched in and helped so much with disaster relief efforts the past couple of years.
Thank you.
Well, how do our brothers and sisters feel about your love and support?
Well, as you watch this next video, I'm going to read to you a sentence or two from different letters of appreciation that our brothers have sent in following a disaster.
Jehovah knows when we're in need, and he spoils us by giving us even more than we ask for.
Your deep concern, as well as the spiritual, emotional, and material support you've provided, and that we're still receiving, is a real soothing ointment that can help us to endure.
When we see our belongings covered with mud, brought outside, and thrown as garbage, we feel very heartbroken.
But the brothers and sisters saw them not as a lump of garbage, but as a mass of our feelings.
The day the construction brothers arrived at my home, I burst into tears.
Now, I'd like to clarify that I didn't cry because I was going to get a new house, but because I saw Jehovah's hand in my life.
The transformation was not limited to my house. This experience has changed me. I've not only seen but also felt Jehovah's tender care.
They not only repaired our house, they also repaired our heart. We were able to see Jehovah in this beautiful work of strengthening help.
Even though we lost our possessions, being busy in the construction and preaching work helped us to maintain our emotional and spiritual balance.
We felt a lump in our throats at being witnesses to the tender care of our protective God.
We can expect that disasters are going to intensify as we get closer to the end of this system.
The study note on Mark chapter 13 and verse 8 on the phrase, pangs of distress says this.
It may suggest that like birth pains, the foretold troubles and suffering will increase in frequency, intensity, and duration in the time period before a great tribulation.
Who knows? You may be next to need help from your brothers. Be prepared.
But at the same time, don't put trust in money or your belongings. All can be gone instantly.
Well, nothing of our possessions will last forever. The love of Jehovah and the love of our brothers will.
As we face increasing disasters, let's continue side by side to help everyone, each one of us to survive this old system.
We appreciate very much brother Ekran that enlightening report that you gave us.
Now those were some necessary announcements you needed to know about.
But we have two more very exciting announcements. We thought it'd be better if you were seated for these.
Here's the first one.
The governing body has approved a significant redesign of the JW.org website to include the features of JW Broadcasting and Watchtower Online Library.
Additionally, the JW Library app will be redesigned and will incorporate the content and features of Watchtower Library.
As a result, the overall appearance of the new website and app will be unified and become more user friendly.
Planning and design work have already begun on this very large project. You should see certain improvements within a few months.
Now this time less than six months does apply. But what do you think of that?
Now here's one more very exciting announcement, especially for our field missionaries, some of whom may be here in attendance. You'll be happy you were seated.
For nearly 75 years, Gilead train missionaries have been serving in the worldwide field, opening up new territories as well as strengthening the brotherhood.
The majority of these missionaries continue to serve in field assignments and have gained valuable experience.
We are pleased to inform you that the governing body has given approval for all field missionaries with an FMF enrollment
who have been serving for at least five years to attend the School of Kingdom Evangelizers SKE.
This provision will reinforce the spirituality of these dear ones. They will be mixed into the SKE classes along with new students to allow others to benefit from their experience.
Approved missionaries will attend SKE in the location of the school of the country to which they are assigned.
We're all very happy for you hard working field missionaries.
But now brotherhood has a couple more acronyms as result of this announcement. The FMF enrollment and SKE classes.
So brotherhood, I hope you took note of that. But now for the next one hour and twenty minutes, we're going to get to enjoy some very exciting fast moving in lightning talks given by five different members of the governing body.
You notice I highlighted that word enlightening. Our lead off speaker is brother Kenneth Cook who will present the talk we should be teachers, brother cook.
After a convention, we often say that the teaching was better than ever. But even the best teachers at this convention or your convention or on today's program are no match for the great teacher.
Jesus was an exceptional teacher. Imagine what it would have been like to hear Jesus teach. What made him so effective?
We don't have to guess. Consider a few of the methods that he used in the Sermon on the Mount. For example, his introduction aroused interest and introduced his subject.
At Matthew chapter five, for example, in verse three, Jesus simply said, happy are those conscious of their spiritual need.
That simple statement provided the interest for his listeners. They would want to know, how would this make me happy?
He then added, since the kingdom of the heavens belongs to them, and there is the subject that he consistently used to mark his teaching.
Jesus also used effective questions to reason with his listeners. He crafted simple but powerful illustrations. And if birds and lollies were on hand, perhaps he was actually using visual aids during that Sermon on the Mount.
Finally, his conclusion was simple. It was brief and motivating. No wonder Jesus listeners were astounded.
Did Jesus expect us to be merely astounded at his teaching, though? No. He commissioned his disciples to go preaching and teaching.
Paul later plainly told the Hebrew Christians, you should be teachers. Why was effective teaching so necessary then and now?
Because lives are involved. Parents, Satan is waging war for the hearts of your children. So it's never been more important to inculcate the truth in them. It means their life, elders.
Our fellow worshipers are battered by this system. So it's never been more important to encourage and strengthen them to endure. It means their life.
And publishers, that's all of us here. The end is rapidly drawing near. So it's never been more important to teach Bible truth in a simple, appealing and motivating way. It means life to those who listen to us.
Because teaching is so important, Jehovah has motivated skilled teachers to pass on their methods to others. For this reason, the Bible tells us that Paul imparted to Timothy not only what to teach, but also his methods or how to teach.
Those methods, it says, were valid everywhere in every congregation. So Timothy passed those methods on to others.
Today, Jehovah's organization has endeavored to follow the same pattern. Teaching teachers has a long history in Jehovah's organization.
Let's look at some modern examples of how Jehovah has trained us to be teachers. In 1922, the school of the prophets was used by some groups of Bible students to develop the art of public teaching and speaking.
One suggestion in the booklet was to practice a figure eight gesture, yes, so that speakers would learn to move their arms and hands in curves. Those schools were later discontinued.
In 1942, even before the Theocratic ministry school was introduced to the congregations, a series of articles in Consolation magazine appeared until 1945, under the heading, presenting this gospel of the kingdom.
The first article stated that the series purpose, it said, quote, to give help for instruction and practical hints to such ones as would publish God's kingdom after the example of Christ himself, study and apply this instruction and note your improvement as a kingdom publisher.
In 1943, the booklet course in Theocratic ministry featured 52 lessons, one for each week of the year and conjunction with a newly formed Theocratic ministry school.
In 1945, the book Theocratic aid to kingdom publishers expanded that course to 90 lessons. 1955, the book qualified to be ministers was described in the watchtower as the best yet book for the Theocratic ministry school until it was revised into an even better qualified book in 1967.
1971, the Theocratic ministry school guidebook was released and then in 2002, we received benefit from theocratic ministry school education, which included new study points, exercises and a council form right in the book.
Clearly, as needs change, Jehovah provides us with new tools to improve our teaching. Is it time for a new tool to improve our skills as teachers? Consider the following regarding our ministry school textbook, one terminology, the contents and even the title of that book referred to the Theocratic ministry school and that as such is no longer in place.
Number two, simplicity. Many find it difficult to find quickly key ideas in the book's 53 study points. An elder from Georgia, USA, wrote, in the short time available to direct the congregation to specific locations in the book, it makes it very difficult for the brothers to find where the chairman is.
Number three, translation. It isn't easy to translate a book this big. In fact, in over 200 languages around the globe, congregations have the meeting workbook, but lack the ministry school book.
For all of these reasons and more, we are pleased to announce a release that addresses those concerns and that will help more of God's people to improve their teaching.
It is a 28 page brochure entitled Apply Yourself to Reading and Teaching. The chairman will let you know how you can access a copy for your personal use, no doubt in less than six months.
In addition, the instructions for a Christian life and ministry meeting will soon be revised and made available to the public.
Now, this brochure will be used at our midweek meetings worldwide beginning January 7, 2019. Don't discard your ministry school book, though, although we won't be using it at our weekly meetings, it is still a very valuable reference.
Would you like to know more about some of this new brochure's features? We begin with brevity. There are only 20 study points and each study point is only one page long.
Does this mean important points have been omitted? No. In many cases, similar points have been combined. For example, study five, accurate reading incorporates key ideas from three points in the ministry school book.
They are accurate reading, words clearly spoken and correct pronunciation. After all, reading accurately includes pronouncing each word correctly and clearly.
Oh, and by the way, the brochure does not suggest using that figure eight gesture. So you don't have to worry about that. Another feature is clarity. Each study features two or three main points with simple direct instructions.
And some study points also include practical tips that relate to the main point. In addition, you will find that many of the study points include a box entitled in the ministry. Why?
Because while most of the points in the brochure apply both to the field ministry and to teaching from the platform suggestions that are specific to the field ministry appear in this separate box.
Next is a feature that you will really find of interest. Record your progress. One of the last pages of the brochure is for you to record the date you consider each study point. More about that in a moment.
So there are some features, but how will the new brochure address the three needs that we mentioned earlier, namely terminology, simplicity and translation.
We begin with terminology. The brochure uses updated expressions, but it also does not refer to specific meetings or meeting parts. Therefore, it will not need to be frequently revised.
Next, simplicity. Fewer study points and a simple easy to use layout will allow the chairman to isolate main points quickly and will help the audience to follow along closely with the chairman.
Also, and you elders are going to love this. More is being done to simplify the work of the chairman and the life and ministry meeting overseer.
Beginning January 7, 2019, the instructions in the meeting workbook for each student assignment will include in parentheses the specific study point that the student should work on.
As an example, for the week of January 7, all brothers worldwide who are assigned the Bible reading will consider study point five accurate reading.
We thought you would like that. Life and ministry meeting overseers and chairman will no longer need to worry about assigning study points or keeping track of what each student is working on.
Would you like to see a chairman use the new brochure to assist a student? Please watch.
Administration of the province of Babylon, but Daniel served in the King's Court.
Thank you, Brother Gomez. That was an excellent reading. You were accurate, fluent, and we could tell that you prepared well.
You're working on study point number 10, modulation. The summary tells us that we have two goals in modulating our voice. One goal is to stir emotion.
You stirred our emotions when you read Daniel 247. Truly, your God is a God of God's.
By raising your pitch, you convey Nebuchadnezzar's intensity and surprise. That's the way to do it.
A second goal is to convey ideas clearly. One way to do it is to increase our volume.
For example, what is the main point of verse 44? Isn't it that Jehovah will set up a kingdom?
So instead of emphasizing the word kings, you might increase your volume when reading God of heaven.
In the days of those kings, the God of heaven will set up a kingdom.
So that's something you might try when preparing to read a scripture.
Look for the main point in each verse, and then try varying your pitch, pace, or volume to make that idea stand out.
Thank you, Brother Gomez. Well done.
For our next part, we'll consider...
That was a very good example of concise and helpful one-minute comments and counsel by the chairman.
But where does the chairman write whether the student completed the assigned point?
He doesn't write anything.
But on the page, record your progress mentioned earlier, who will write the dates that the student considered each point?
The student, not the chairman.
When should a student record a date on this page? Well, that's up to you, the student.
Many will likely record the date that they are assigned to consider a specific point for a student assignment.
Others, including elders, who may not handle student assignments regularly, may want to consider each of these points on their own.
Each brother and sister can decide when and how to use this page to record their progress.
This, record your progress page is for your personal use.
Now, so far, we've looked at the need for updated terminology and greater simplicity.
Now, let's consider that third point, translation.
You will be thrilled to know that the governing body has already approved for this brochure to be translated into over 350 languages,
more than twice the number of languages that produce the current textbook.
But the same brevity that allows us to expand the translation also means that there are a few real life examples in the brochure that show how to apply the study points.
So, one to be helpful to see how to put the study points into action, both from the platform and in the field ministry, and Dita Wood.
For this reason, the governing body has approved the production of 20 videos, one for each study point to depict the application of these points.
Let's watch the video for study one effective introductions.
You're at the Kingdom Hall about to give a public talk.
Will the audience listen to what you have to say?
Much depends on how you introduce your subject.
An effective introduction arouses interest, identifies your subject, and shows why the subject is important to your listeners.
Let's give our brother an opportunity to introduce his subject.
As the meeting chairman mentioned, we're going to talk about death and what it means to you and me.
Let's read a scripture at Ecclesiastes95.
So, what do you think? Did the speaker identify his subject? Yes. Did he arouse interest? Not so much. Did he show why the subject is important?
No. So, how might he approach the subject differently? Let's watch.
Throughout all of human history, not one person has escaped death.
The lives of some people are cut short suddenly by unexpected events or illness. Have you ever lost a loved one in death?
If so, you know how painful that is. Yet, how can something that causes so much pain be a normal, natural part of life?
The Bible is the key to understanding why we die. Where we go when we die and how death will be reversed.
Let's consider each of those points.
You can apply this principle to any subject when giving a talk. But how can you effectively introduce a subject in the ministry?
Remember, of course, that in most cases you're a complete stranger to the householder. Try not to startle the person.
Identify yourself early in the conversation. To determine what a person might be interested in, observe his activities or surroundings.
You might begin by asking a question or making a brief comment about those things. Let's consider one example.
Hi, my name's Jill. I'm here to talk about God's purpose for the future. The Bible says here, sorry, but I don't have time to talk.
Was the introduction effective?
The householder didn't want to continue the conversation, so apparently the introduction didn't arouse interest.
How might the publisher have handled the situation better?
Good morning. You have a beautiful garden. It must take a lot of work.
It sure does.
Well, your work is certainly paying off. Thank you.
By the way, my name's Jill, and this is Tammy. I'm Emily.
Emily, you work so hard to care for the garden you planted.
Do you think that God cares the same way about this planet that he created?
Because the publisher took into account the interests of the householder, she increased the chances of starting a conversation and sharing the kingdom message.
This can also be done in urban areas where people expect you to get right to the point.
In such settings, try to include a thought-provoking statement or question in your introduction.
Effective introductions are the first step toward productive conversations and presentations of the good news.
Jesus foretold that the preaching of the good news of the kingdom will stop when the end comes, so our work is urgent.
However, the work of teaching has only just begun.
Isaiah 26 and verse 9 says of Jehovah that when there are judgments from you for the earth,
the inhabitants of the land learn about righteousness, and that will certainly prove to be true in the new world.
The great crowd will soon be invited to teach vast numbers of resurrected ones.
You may study with someone who lived 3,000 years ago or more.
Imagine how helpful it will be to have learned how to explain unfamiliar terms in study 17, understandable to others.
Your student may have lived during the Middle Ages when people were taught to fear the clergy rather than to love God.
But you will have already learned from study 19 how to reach the heart of your student.
And when you're asked to summarize all that Jehovah did for his people during the last days, you'll need to keep things simple.
Something you learned in study 14, main points made to stand out.
Even today, however, we must be teachers.
So use this new brochure to continue applying yourself to reading and teaching.
By doing this, the Bible tells us, you will save both yourself and those who listen to you.
Thank you so much, Brother Cook, and thank you also for joining us on the governing body.
To borrow words from Brother Sidlik, the Lord knew we needed your help.
I'm still working on that too.
But we have the following announcement regarding our wonderful new brochure and a double check that got the right announcement this time.
The teaching brochure in all available languages will be released on JW.org, Watchtower Online Library and JW Library on Monday, October the 8th, 2018.
Now, in addition to that, if you will be making use of a hard copy of this publication,
one copy of the printed edition will be available after the program at the various annual meeting locations,
including the main lobby of your complex for those watching from their personal rooms.
Additional printed copies may be requested through the congregations.
So Monday, two days, you get this one electronically.
But now, moving to our next talk, we're privileged to listen to Brother Anthony Morris,
and he's going to deliver the gripping talk. This is it.
I hope I rendered justice to announcing that title for Brother Morris.
I'll talk to you later, huh?
I ruined my introduction. That's all right.
But I think all of you would agree how much we enjoyed the museum video,
and hearing Brother Fred Franz, his voice, talking about after the assassination of the Archduke,
the brothers said, ah-ha, there it is. There it is, what we've been waiting for.
Well, that's very stirring, and then we would have critics saying,
you have it, you people had other expectations that were not realized, et cetera.
But it's amazing that even the world recognized, this was unique, 1914.
In fact, I've had this for many years when I show it to you.
It's the New World magazine.
And it was widely read at the time, and I guess I remember about 1931,
they went out of business. But here, end of all kingdoms in 1914,
millennial donors, 25-year prophecy.
Widely read, other newspapers covered it.
They made comments here about the terrific war I'll break in Europe
has fulfilled an extraordinary prophecy.
For a quarter of a century passed through preachers and through press,
the international Bible students best known as millennial donors,
have been proclaiming to the world that the day of wrath prophesied in the Bible would dawn in 1914.
Look out for 1914 has been the cry of the hundreds of traveling evangelists.
And I appreciate very much how the yearbook in 1975,
considering our modern day history, made this beautiful quote,
disappointments about going to heaven in 1914 really were very minor,
compared with the great expectations realized in connection with that year.
And it's amazing during the first six months of 1914, nothing happened.
And they were being ridiculed, and then the Archduke is assassinated.
This one was particularly released August 30th, 1914,
millions dying in World War I.
So it's Brother France's statement that really, if the idea for the theme here,
this is it. The question arises,
will we have one or more times in the future,
or even not one we can say this is it?
See, and have that same exciting fervor because of Bible prophecy.
Well, let's begin with this one here.
Find Daniel, chapter 11,
and we're going to read here, verse 40,
or half of it.
In the time of the end, the King of the South, here in Daniel 1140,
will engage with him in a pushing.
So the governing body has been prayerfully considering recent events.
And we know that in 1991, the Soviet Union came to an end.
So who is the King of the North?
Well, after prayerfully considering it,
and the matter of the pushing,
we're assuring you that what we see after prayerfully considering it,
is that Russia and its allies, King of the North.
Now, here's some reasoning.
The Soviet Union just banded.
Russia came up from the rubble of the Soviet Union,
along with its allies.
And here's some of the facts.
Two things have become apparent.
Russia and its allies are continuing to engage in a pushing
with the King of the South,
and we'll get to that pushing point shortly.
And the second, they are taking the lead
in persecuting and opposing God's people.
And notice what the pushing includes.
Electronic espionage.
Computer attacks.
Trade wars.
And that's what they call them.
And the hostile flooding into surrounding territory.
These are recurring features of the news headlines.
You're aware of them.
So someone who has the King of the North been inactive?
Well, no.
It appears he's never been this busy with the pushing,
with the King of the South.
So this is it.
At this point, we're confident to share with you Russia.
And its allies are the King of the North.
And they're engaged in this pushing.
In fact, last month,
they had the largest war games Russia did,
since the Soviet Union was in existence,
way back in the 80s.
And they had their allies with them in the war game.
So we're confident this is it.
This is the King of the North.
And that's what's involved at this time
with the pushing, locking horns with each other.
So there are going to be another time related to Bible prophecy
where the faithful slave will be able to say to you,
this is it.
Well, one that we're all very familiar with,
and especially this audience here in Newburg,
you've been in the truth for decades.
Notice the very familiar thoughts
from 1 Thessalonians chapter five.
And we're going to read verse two and verse three,
five, two, and three.
For you yourselves know very well that Jehovah's Day is coming
exactly as a thief in the night.
Whenever it is that they are saying peace and security,
then sudden destruction is to be instantly on them,
just like birth pains on a pregnant woman,
and they will by no means escape.
Now, so that we have the clear thinking,
published comments regarding these two verses we read,
we'll take you back to September 15th, 2012, Watchtower.
Quoting, as used here,
Jehovah's Day refers to the period
that will start with the destruction of false religion
and will culminate in the war of Armageddon.
However, just before that day of Jehovah begins,
world leaders will be saying peace and security.
This may refer to one event
or to a series of events.
Nations may think they are close to solving
some of their big problems.
So here's the question,
and it's understood that it would be asked,
will the faithful slave be able to,
at a certain time say to the brotherhood,
this is it.
This is what we've been waiting for.
This is the peace and security prophecy.
Well, keep this comment in mind
from a Watchtower 2004,
February 1st, page 21.
Since Bible prophecies are often fully understood only
after they are fulfilled
or are in the process of fulfillment,
isn't that interesting?
So keep that in mind,
we'll come back to it,
and that happens to be the case,
the prophecies will feel,
oh, okay.
We'll come back to that statement
from the Watchtower shortly,
but just consider, especially those of you here,
many of you are aged,
and you'll remember,
many of you are in the truth at the time,
what about the year 1986?
See, the United Nations was proclaiming
the prior to January of 1986
that, you know, get ready,
they wanted the governments
to put their arms down for at least a year,
international year of peace.
Oh.
See, if you were in the truth back then,
they were like, okay.
So they were all big facts.
The Pope at that time gathered all these religious leaders
over there to assist the Italy,
and they're all over their pran
to who they pray to,
and having this fervor for peace for the earth.
Well, how did the faithful slave handle all that?
See.
So this honors Jehovah's faithful slave
serving at that time.
Here's what was published in the 85 Watchtower,
October 1st, page 18.
Oh, this is some months before
that all started in 1986.
Here's what was stated.
Christians cannot say in advance exactly
when the Great Tribulation will strike, period.
Jehovah has not revealed that day or the hour.
Thus, when, for example,
the United Nations declares the year 1986
an international year of peace,
Christians watch the event with interest,
but they cannot say in advance
where this will prove to be the fulfillment of Paul's words.
Nonetheless, we kept on the watch,
but God's Spirit was guiding His people
particularly the faithful slave.
They were not only faithful,
they were discreet, and they did not say,
this is it.
This is the fulfillment of 1st Esalonians.
Chapter 5, no.
See.
But if you're still there, go back to 1st Esalonians chapter 5,
it's just something to keep in mind here that
sometimes we'll read verse 2 and 3 and leave out verse 4.
He writes, but you, brothers,
you are not in darkness,
so that that day should overtake you as it would thieves.
So thieves are doing their thievery when it's dark,
but we're sons of light.
So that's not going to catch us.
The faithful ones worshipping the true God,
obedient to this earthly part of His organization.
So the question comes up,
if you go back to that quote from 2004 Watchtower,
see, prophecies are only fully understood,
only after they are fulfilled,
but we also said, or are in the process of fulfillment.
So will the faithful slave be able to say
in the process of the fulfillment of this prophecy
from 1st Esalonians?
This is it.
That's what we've been waiting for.
We'll have to wait and see.
So, but there's a word of caution here.
I want to pass on to you because we're all human.
We must keep on the watch, but please,
just don't be gullible.
You hear a world leader say something about peace
and then they start emailing or something else
with social network.
This is it.
See, leave the channel to handle such matters.
If the faithful slave is moved by God's spirit
to say that to the brotherhood,
and that's His will, fine.
But please don't be gullible.
Stick with the way your home wants this to operate
and he'll bless your obedience.
Now, you'll remember Jehovah's Day begins
as they're saying peace and security.
Turn to Revelation chapter 17.
I would stirring words or familiar with,
but it does nourish our figurative hearts
when we read these.
Chapter 17, verses 15, 16, and 17.
He said to me, the waters that you saw were the prostitute,
the world empire, false religion is sitting,
mean peoples and crowds and nations and tongues.
And the ten horns that you saw on the wild beast,
these will hate the prostitute.
They will make her devastated and naked,
and they will eat up her flesh and completely burn her with fire.
For God put it into their hearts to carry out His thought,
yes, to carry out their one thought
by giving their kingdom to the wild beast
until the words of God will have been accomplished.
Now, this is what's going to happen.
And when you think about it, this is just mind-boggling.
They have no plans as such.
The government's at this point.
So Jehovah forces one part of Satan's system
to destroy another part.
Only the Almighty God can do that.
So when they do destroy battle on the Great
and all of this is taking place on the Earth,
you brothers are not going to need a breaking news update
around the globe you're going to say,
this is it, the Great Tribulation has started.
And frankly, for those that worry sometimes,
during the Great Tribulation as these events unfold,
you're not going to be terrified.
No, you're going to stand up straight,
lift your heads up and say,
this is it, our deliverance is here.
Thank you very much, brother Morris,
for heightening our eagerness
for what lies ahead in the near future
and thank you for removing the veil from the King of the North.